I once had a Brazilian roommate in
English we don't say housemate we say
roommate we didn't actually sleep in the
same room he was in the next room kind
of two doors down the hall but we eat
breakfast together sometimes we saw a
lot of each other living in the same
house we were both actually in Germany
learning German and he asked me a very
funny question one day he asked do you
think there is a genetic difference
between white people in Brazil and white
people in the United States and Canada
because in Brazil it seems that all
anyone cares about is the shape of a
woman's ass whereas in the United States
in Canada everyone's obsessed with you
know the size of a woman's breasts if we
think about it the question is even more
surreal if you were to include the black
population of Brazil and the black
population in the United States and
Canada you know given that they're part
of the same basic history of slave
trading back and forth between Africa
and the world and so on so my answer at
that time I was younger but it wasn't
that bad an answer I said no I think
it's completely cultural I don't think
it's genetic and I said to them you know
I think in Brazil you dress a certain
way and culturally you act a certain way
and you maybe meet women dancing in
revealing attire or at the beach wearing
bathing suits but you know in Canada
most United States it's cold all the
time and women are wearing winter coats
and so on and I you know you pretty much
never see that lower half of a woman's
body so you know the size of a woman's
breasts are the first thing you see when
she walks in the room the size of her
ass you might notice what you walk out
of the room but depending on what kind
of winter coat you're wearing you might
not see it at all there are cultural and
climatic reasons as to why this might
have developed in the way it did
the stereotype shall we say about
Brazilian and Gian and ever the merica
culture right
my girlfriend Melissa and I we talked a
lot today about mmm cultural social
political would even kind of
philosophical consequences of breast
size and to be fair it's a topic we've
talked about a lot in the last three
years I come from we're talking about
this very different angle when you and I
first got together um I think the
realization I came to today in our
discussion which was new for me which I
hadn't really thought of before is that
breast size means something very
different now in the year 2020 than it
did in any earlier century in 1920 or
1820 or 1720 and that is because in the
past the size of a woman's breast just
like the size of her nose or the length
of her legs or the size of your arms was
just something fixed by birth and to
some extent whether or not you were
starving during your childhood
development the quality of nutrition
equality of upbringing in that sense but
you know some people were born short and
some people were born tall and this was
in electable fate beyond your control it
wasn't a choice it wasn't saying you
could negotiate and conversely you know
with breast size you just had to regard
it as something like this arbitrary and
unequal and today because of the
prevalence of plastic surgery the
accessibility ease and affordability of
plastic surgery and above all else
because it's socially accepted because
culturally it's treated as acceptable
for women's undergo of this plastic
surgery women who have small breasts
women who are flat-chested whenever they
see a one with large breasts whether its
natural or surgically enhanced they are
presented with an image of the door they
left unopened the road they didn't go
down the choice they didn't make now as
never before if you have small breasts
that's a choice it's a decision you're
making
and you know I have lived in other
cultures where it's socially acceptable
for a woman to have fake breasts of a
very different kind where it's a social
assessable for a woman to wear padded
bra and a whole complex prosthetic
outfit to work every day and I mean
women who are like lawyers women of an
office job like women who are
extensively changing the way their body
looks at the padded bra every day and
where that's acceptable Thailand easy
example you know you know the use of
foam padded bras is at epidemic levels
of Thailand let me tell you okay I have
lived in cultures where that's really
socially acceptable and that's why I
feel confident saying this is not one of
them in the United States and Canada I
think a woman would be ridiculed for
having fake breasts of that kind of a
fake breasts that on the outside of her
skin but it's accepted it is normal in
2020 for women to have fake breasts in
the form of surgical implants worn under
the skin right so that's something in
any other context it would be absurd to
say that a woman feels social pressure
to have large breasts because you can't
say that a man feel social pressure to
be tall there's just nothing you can do
about it like he's short maybe maybe he
does feel he would have advantages as
people were told maybe he does notice
that all of the men who were regarded as
handsome even people like newsreaders
and lawyers and business leaders that
like tall tallness is something
important in this culture maybe he does
think if he were taller he would have
had other sexual partners in university
than almost he had maybe but
nevertheless it's not an option when a
tall man walks in through the door a
short man can't think or reflect that
would be me if only I'd set my pride
aside if only I'd set my own sense of
authenticity and integrity aside and get
that surgery right because there is no
surgery for that yet maybe there never
will be but definitely not now on to
those
and for a flat-chested you're small
breasted woman the sight of any woman
with large breasts is a challenge in
that same way now as it never was before
and yes I mean obviously part of the
psychosis of Instagram which is maybe
overly philosophized about here on
YouTube you know of looking at women who
are better dressed than you women who
spend two hours a day going to the gym
exercising at the gym and you don't all
of those things have okay they can only
be a burden on you they can only apply
pressure to you socially or
psychologically if you think of those
things as options right that you could
be going to the gym that you could be
spending more money on your clothes that
you could be drinking this diet tea and
losing weight there first has to be an
option allottee to it right and indeed I
mean I'm sure today as never before that
must be true with the shape of your nose
that you could have a smaller nose you'd
host or maybe you see maybe when you see
women with small nose you feel the same
way but historically that was never the
case in the past right as much as you
might be moan your fate your fate is
absolutely by definition something you
didn't choose and can't change right
whereas now this is something that you
can yeah you must be going yeah I guess
I could say the specific time that I
grew up in there was some dissonance
between these two ideas so the two ideas
that I'm thinking of or the Equality the
discussion and school and discounting
children that you know we're all born
equal in this way you know in certain
ways and like everybody is beautiful in
their own way everyone's special in
their own way and even everyone is smart
in their own way yeah I got I got the
same message in school by contrast on
television I remember watching shows
when I was very young called Extreme
Makeover plastic surgery shows YES on E
Entertainment Television
and also seeing pretty dramatic
representations of women on MTV vh1 on
these you know this type of mass media
which I consumed quite a bit of so yeah
I just I just say there was this
dissonance between like okay so is
everybody equal and you know everybody
has their own attributes that should be
you know seen as beautiful or is it the
case that we're all trying to mold into
this right Beauty ideal and we're
willing to you know right we're
physically you know shave off parts of
our body or put silicone or are you all
equal equally entitled to spend
thousands of dollars on plastic surgery
this pressure maybe this wondering
something yeah it's it's different when
like when the first person dead or like
when the first few people like the first
wave of breast augmentation happened
it's like once you take that step now it
is it is the case that anyone could if
there is that equality in that everybody
could potentially if we save up enough
money you can get breast augmentation I
mean you know I think even the language
here has to be questioned augmentation
think about the meaning of the word
vision enhancement enhanced breath
breast enhancement surgery right the
reality is these procedures they're
crippling you they're making you into a
disabled person I'm not gonna go off
into great length or great detail with
this but guys if you have silicone sax
inserted in your chest when you lie on
your back to sleep you have to breathe
with them on your chest when you turn
onto your side to sleep for some ways
women that can be even worse one of the
most common things you read about with
women when they get breast augmentation
surgery
okay can we shouldn't even say
augmentation Billy when you think about
it is that they have this terrible
process of adjusting and learning
sleep again sleeping in some strange
position they didn't sleep in before
whether that's on their side or face
down or however it is they sort it out
or somewhere more comfortable on their
back whatever it is but it it changes
the way you breathe it changes the way
you sleep and then you can look up the
long list of very peculiar side effects
that are now fueling the so-called
explant movement okay so the language of
augmentation and enhancement you know
what I would already oh it already
question I think the power of this for
women we're going to talk about the male
perspective separately ultimately comes
in fact that most of us including
intellectuals now I think I really have
to speak on that too alright for most of
us the pleasures we have in life
however paltry come from sexuality and
the people we love and the people who
are brought into our lives through
social relationships right I mean my
conversations with my girlfriend may be
more important to me may be more
meaningful to me than the act of sex
itself regarded in a vacuum but we
wouldn't be having these conversations
if we didn't have a sexual relationship
I mean you know really there's this I've
seen different people try to address it
but I think there's this assumption that
men who lead a meaningful life
men who are intellectuals are somehow
aloof from or indifferent to sex and
then the opposite is true the opposite
is true I think as a male intellectual
you appreciate sex more because you
reject alcohol you reject watching
sports
you reject playing video games you
reject skiing I'm sorry but I do I even
think skiing right I'm not I'm sex
positive right I don't regard sex as
something meaningless or evil or bad I
don't regard it as a waste my time the
way you skiing is or what have you I do
not think there's any productive
allegory to be made between sex and
cocaine cocaine is a drug I think you
should completely exclude from your life
gambling I think you should completely
exclusively so just say in terms of what
remains in the life of an intellectual
your intimate relations with other human
beings your intellectual relations your
emotional relations but yes also sex
this remains something someone
you know tremendous import so for women
the idea I think it is the same
basically with a nose job but in some
ways in some ways the breast implant and
breast size natural or otherwise it's a
much more powerful symbol you know if
you have a woman who lived her whole
life with a really ugly nose there's
something wrong with her she has a
crooked nose and she thinks her whole
life she could have been happy she could
have had better sexual partners or
married a better man you know that she
could have had this better life if only
her nose weren't crooked it's very very
powerful
right and for a lot of women who are
small breasted or flat-chested entirely
they are living with this sense that
they don't know what it's like that the
grass really is greener on the other
side of the hill and again now that's
not just a fade they have to be resigned
to it is something they could change so
this becomes a really powerful cultural
symbol yeah yeah I want to say I
actually do agree with you now but I
think when I was growing up I didn't
address the questions the look well
there's there's limited like discussion
to have philosophically about human
sexuality right and I guess when I was
younger I thought you know this is
something that you know I'm too mature
to be asking these questions or to be
talking about breast size to be talking
about these things that's my friends and
I you know
contempt yeah but I wish I would have
earlier because then it left me later on
in the dark and a lot of these things
and immature and a lot of these places
so I do think it's important yes even as
somebody who thinks oh no I you know
that's that's not something I'm gonna
display my time with I'm gonna spend my
time reading I'm studying at school and
I'm playing music you know these other
things I don't have time to even like
think about that human sexuality but
it's like everybody has a sexuality you
know well I mean I think we're at the
limits when we talk about he was a buddy
almost by definition we're at the limits
of what you can address rationally and
then we're into taking a step beyond
that into the irrational world of desire
and purely animal instincts which we
live with as an intellectual you live
with it if you're a Buddhist monk living
in celibacy you live with it all right
I know
cognitively as a fact that a woman
having larger breasts doesn't make sex
better and it doesn't make the
relationship as a whole better I know
that now a lot of younger guys watching
this you know know that you may not know
that you may not have the experience to
really speak up on the have confidence
and say no you know actually a woman can
be flat-chested and and that this may
sound weird again for some of the
younger guys watching um a woman having
really strong arms can contribute more
to great sex than are having large
breasts all right look really like the
strength and vitality of the room which
in our culture we don't sexualize at all
now we don't you don't women have arms
but it's not it's not this powerful
token of either sexuality or maturity or
maternity or whatever you know um you
know it's not presented this way so you
know I can know that cognitively right I
can know that inverse was and I can even
make rational choices in that matter
accordingly okay
however on the level of instinct on the
level of irrational desire and so on
it is true in many situations woman's
breast size is the first thing you
notice and we have been in cultures
including the South of France where
women are either actually naked or
they're about 98% naked and what are you
know even if you're not really out there
looking for it where Wow all of a sudden
like Here I am at the beach with my five
year old daughter or going swimming this
is not on my mind at all like you're
thinking about like where did my
daughter leave for toi a water gun like
you know you're keeping track of like
your minds on other stuff and you are
confronted with you know you know women
who are you know very consciously
intentionally showing off up there
present Connie's here in Canada we do
allow female toplessness and several
memorable times here in Victoria Canada
there have been young women who again I
mean they were not average looking young
women I mean they really what I think
who really knew that sottish off who
were really displaying the press and to
me and totally unexpected context where
you know you know you react to this
again on a level of in st. Louis er so I
just say for men also it is a really
powerful force if it is a powerful force
in the psychological reality of daily
life and no matter how much you mock
marketing campaigns and advertising that
try to exploit this like hey men buy
this car battery because there's a woman
with big breasts posing with the car
pattern but it's so really feel stance
which whether it's on the internet or in
print media any product can be promoted
with a woman in a bikini with large
breasts anything you know what a joke
okay but there are times in your life if
you're a heterosexual man and again it
can be completely unexpected like that
like you know I'm at the beach transform
with my daughter it's not what I'm
looking for it's not what's on my mind
when that reality cuts in you know so I
just say whether whether you are
Brazilian or Canadian or American I
think I have to stand by that you know
I think that is a fundamental fact of
life and even if it's exploited and even
if we're cynical about it or even if not
just philosophically but your personal
practical experience you really know it
doesn't matter it doesn't matter having
a good relationship and it doesn't
matter to having great sex I still have
to say it's something that will and for
me it's actually not in photographs for
me a real life face to face it's
something that leaps out to you and
grabs your attention like seeing a
serpent moving in the grass if you like
if you've really lived if you've been in
the jungle or so you've been somewhere
that snakes are dangerous and you see a
snake move you notice it sticks so
clearly you have millions of years of
evolution to notice that snake moving in
the grass you know even though it may be
the same color as the grass I you know
lamentably or not I think that is
something we're all we're all born with
and living with this intersection man
look I'm a heterosexual female and I
don't have the you know desire that
comes when I see a woman with large
breasts but it's very like shocking
sometimes you know it's true it's like I
can't help but look you know so I'm not
saying that I'm you know like interested
sexually but like and from a young age I
can remember these things you know we
part of our discussion earlier was I was
saying you know I was lamenting that
somebody in the hip-hop world got breast
implants yeah and I was thinking but you
know I saw some of her earlier videos
where she had you know it's a smaller
chest and I thought oh that's you know
that's cool like you know there's
somebody that's more that's in the
hip-hop world that has a small chest and
then she went and got breast implants
maybe five years later so this
discussion is done from that and I kind
of thought well I guess I'm thinking of
you know you you Kate you came up with
many examples of women in the media who
are small chested yeah as an example you
know I said like oh there's not really
that much representation of small
chested woman in the media but that's
not true you know there are quite a few
actresses who are you know it's very
popular who have small chest but I guess
the thing that stood out to me the most
when I was growing up even though I am
intersexual it's like I remember
like from a very young age seeing like
Baywatch on TV you know like I'm a sandy
beach like running around and also um
you know when I was like 10 or something
I you know I begged my parents to have a
TV in my room
so just most of the time I was watching
cartoons forever but I guess I do
remember at night there was the really
like those crappy advertisements for
girls gone wild so you could buy it
girls gone well on VHS so yeah I just
knew from a young age that even though
that wasn't what I was into I knew that
that was that was what was you know like
that is how the way to be sexy that's
the way to be attractive to a man and
then like you know imagine my
frustration I didn't develop breasts
like that you know that's like it
doesn't you know I'm not messed up about
it now and I've come to terms with the
fact that I'm a small chested woman and
you know I there are you know things
about it that I actually do like and be
able to play volleyball
ya know but I do like I have to
recognize it's easier to go up
staircases but it went yeah yeah but
that's not gonna be the focus for men
okay okay I've heard plenty of women
lament that like you know Oh men don't
get my face when I'm talking and I'm
they look at I can imagine what what
they're still looking at you you know
the men in my life being more interested
in my face in my brain what I actually
have to say so you know I guess I guess
people might always think the grass is
greener but yeah like like you said
there is this kind of different
dimension instead of men thinking the
grass is greener if you're taller I mean
you know I neither think the problem nor
the solution is representation in the
media I know it's very common in 2020 to
make every problem into an issue of
repetition media and the conversation we
had earlier before the cameras were
running Melissa lamented at one point
was
the spontaneous thing she said that
there were no flat-chested women with me
and then I actually talked through this
if well look are we talking about the
media you and I actually watch like we
talk about what we actually know here
and I started talking through it
systematically and then we start talking
about different genres on and quite
rapidly Melissa said look she abandoned
her initial suggestion that no and
whether you're talking about Keira
Knightley or that blonde girl
the blond girl Kanye West's has a fight
with Taylor Swift at any one time there
are many many beauty icons not just in
the world of music and not just in the
world of hip-hop or dance or movies or
news presenters that actually but that
one of the interesting things that came
out of that was they said look you have
to recognize that you are noticing you
are picking out the women with big
breasts and you know and you are
noticing and remembering the women who
had breast augmentation surgery now I'm
not saying this to criticize or insult
my girlfriend but that stands out for
you that actually no in terms of the
media we actually watch which is very
peculiar
we don't watch your kind of cross
section of normal American media but
actually all the time there are
flat-chested women and small boys and me
know we list it off kind of what the
actual things we watch are and
what-have-you right but in your mind
what's standing out or the way and again
I think that is the psychology we talked
about at the beginning you know that I
mean for one thing as per the comparison
to seeing a snake in the grass there is
just some kind of attention grab and
quality this has even for a heterosexual
woman and yes melissa is heterosexual I
have experience with bisexual women
Bliss is not bisexual at all and it is
different when you're with bisexual
women and lesbians the way they respond
to the sight of breasts and so on that's
also very interesting
maybe it's off 50l but you know so
comparison what if there were a man who
you know was short and it's always
bothering him that when he watches the
news the men on the news art all the
news presenters are tall and so on I
mean I don't really think the problem
or the solution is representation in the
media like if we if we make it a policy
to have more short men and really short
men I don't mean five-foot-nine
look let's start with men who are 5 foot
2 or so you know men who are really
short and I don't think that solves any
problem I mean I just don't I mean
either you know there's another problem
assertion
so we partly have to talk about what is
the psychology of the man who's watching
the news and noticing all of that guy's
taller than me oh that got you know
there are no short men on the news and
you know maybe is struggling with his
own sense and and which is true by the
way I think both in terms of news
presenters and leaders of Industry and
actors you know male actors the
preference for height is much more
strong and uniform than the preference
for having big breasted women in movie
roles for example even though female
beauty is expected to answer to higher
standards especially for news presenters
especially females that women are
spending more effort with their
appearance clothing makeup hair
everything then men are nevertheless the
standards for men are in some ways more
inflexible and there are very very few
you know short men but the problem is
not representation meaning the solution
is not gross addition to media I mean I
think the problem is really ancient
instincts instincts we've had for
thousands of years now confronting this
sense of optionality that you could
choose to have you know larger breasts I
think that's something new and very
difficult to just draw away
okay that's let's call that a wrap